Munachimso Aneke: hi, my name is Munachimso Aneke and my project focuses on predicting life expectancy age in developed and developing countries.
Munachimso Aneke: So I got my data from kaggle. The data is a compilation from the World Health Organization and United Nations. It contains observations of 193 countries from the year 2000 to 2015. it has a categorical data called status, which tells us if the country is developed or developing.
Munachimso Aneke: They also includes the life expectancy age and other factors like infant and adult mortality rate, alcohol consumption, level of schooling.
Munachimso Aneke: Such a condition, a lot of your.
Munachimso Aneke: My problems for focuses on determining what factors are important when predicting the life expectancy in.
Munachimso Aneke: developed and developing countries, I thought, like multiple linear regression would be the best tool for determining how strong the correlation between independent factors and life expectancy age.
Munachimso Aneke: When it comes to data cleaning, or wrangling uhm.
Munachimso Aneke: except from a couple of missing  values.
Munachimso Aneke: My data came in on the presentable table, so I didn't have to do.
Munachimso Aneke: Anything else but eliminating missing values.
Munachimso Aneke: since my data has like 22 columns I felt like this was the best way to present a peek of the data, so you can easily like slide and see all the data, the table.
Munachimso Aneke: Or the.
Munachimso Aneke: observation.
Munachimso Aneke: majority of my data variables are numerical but they are a couple non numerical ones that is country, year and status, whether it's the developed or developing countries so before I went any further that I just want the quick summary of each numerical variable.
Munachimso Aneke: So this your shows me the first and third point is real and more of each each numerical variable.
Munachimso Aneke: I wanted to visualize how big the gap was between the life expectancy age of developed and developing countries, so I created a new variable called average life expectancy these aren't just a year.
Munachimso Aneke: and
Munachimso Aneke: Looking at the graph or bar graph there's a trend.
Munachimso Aneke: of developed countries having larger.
Munachimso Aneke: or higher life expectancy age than developing countries.
Munachimso Aneke: This is kind of.
Munachimso Aneke: My goal was to see was to produce two models, one for developed and another for developing countries I had to split my data set into two data frames
Munachimso Aneke: And then, before my analysis this is a brief summary of how are the steps, I took to conduct my analysis.
Munachimso Aneke: So for developing countries my first step was to check the multicollinearity the.
Munachimso Aneke: collinearity being predicted variables, while we do once high correlation between independent and dependent variables condition with a independent with lead to redundancy in regression model so to have either way more energy I use a coalition to smoke and mirrors this heat map I look for.
Munachimso Aneke: correlation coefficient absolutely correlation coefficient has a value of 0.9 or higher.
Munachimso Aneke: So.
Munachimso Aneke: destroyed the.
Munachimso Aneke: set in this map.
Munachimso Aneke: The sleep Rossi clarity as a descending which allows them to eliminate I compared the correlation coefficient of.
Munachimso Aneke: of each says to the life balance is and then he said was that has the biggest fruition so it's using the under five there's an instance that infant death.
Munachimso Aneke: and
Munachimso Aneke: You can see the.
Munachimso Aneke: Infant that.
Munachimso Aneke: has very strong correlation number five.
Munachimso Aneke: This is this one.
Munachimso Aneke: So I was in finance, which is the default one that's what the different one for absolutely.
Munachimso Aneke: And the physician.
Munachimso Aneke: So ended up in front.
Munachimso Aneke: of me I think.
Munachimso Aneke: We had.
Munachimso Aneke: The same position position so it's a method, I used to take.
Munachimso Aneke: Which columns and.
Munachimso Aneke: Then I know this is our users have access to treatment in the question model.
Munachimso Aneke: When after I clicked on our model.
Munachimso Aneke: That.
Munachimso Aneke: piece is like to include my water I use the p value is limited statistics colleagues insignificant variables, even a number of circling verify for sure different one and then after removing those columns I have my findings.
Munachimso Aneke: Try this and mustache also when analyzing the developed countries, I.
Munachimso Aneke: chuckle what the primary team in the heat loss a feat has missing values in this month.
Munachimso Aneke: Because standardization for children ages of zero and encouraging divided by the deviation and that would be an error so automatically we can return was the truth.
Munachimso Aneke: I see for this instead of checking, for I should have values that underpin one night.
Munachimso Aneke: And then I unmuted using the ones that have the Jewish tradition, keeping doors that has permission and also need a big role, since those are.
Munachimso Aneke: So this lesson, this is lie, you know brushing model.
Munachimso Aneke: And I use the same steps or a meeting after this on P value usually fitness level.
Munachimso Aneke: within a week, this is my final question, what do.
Munachimso Aneke: Too examine how effective when models.
Munachimso Aneke: Are.
Munachimso Aneke: cedric.
Munachimso Aneke: If my models.
Munachimso Aneke: model effective than I would have an idea should your first one we differentiate with distribution, but to Costa, in the middle.
Munachimso Aneke: My.
Munachimso Aneke: club does not.
Munachimso Aneke: conform to the ideal plus I do have an umbrella why we chose that I could have further refine my model to be more appealing or go for the scope of the project, I did not implement any further analysis, so I am using the same one of the predicted la and las slides As my final results.
Munachimso Aneke: In conclusion, there was four factors.
Munachimso Aneke: into the model.
Munachimso Aneke: To the model for.
Munachimso Aneke: The undeveloped countries a couple of factors, the first frankly i'd almost it fall in line with me officers and some of them did like musicals under five to Germany and.
Munachimso Aneke: Surprisingly, I saw.
Munachimso Aneke: In this will be upset the life expectancy are developing countries for it came out more developed countries but, basically, this is the.
Munachimso Aneke: End of my purchase Thank you.